W-16716183 MuleSoft AI Chain Connector (#2706)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: mulesoft-ai-chain/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/configuring-embeddings-operations.adoc

= Configuring Embeddings Operations

Embeddings operations include:

* <<new-store-operation,Embedding new store>>
* <<add-document-to-store,Embedding add document to store>>    

> * <<add-document-to-store,Embedding add document to store>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* <<add-folder-to-store,Embedding add folder to store>>     
* <<embedding-query-from-store,Embedding query from store>>
* <<get-info-from-store,Embedding get info from store>>

[[new-store-operation]]
== Configure the Embedding New Store Operation

The *Embedding new store* operation creates a new in-memory embedding and exports it to a physical file. The in-memory embedding in MuleSoft AI Chain persists its data through file exports upon any changes.

To configure the *Embedding new store* operation:

> . Select the operation on the Studio canvas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the operation on the Anypoint Code Builder or Studio canvas.
```

[source,json]
----
{
  "storeName": "knowledge-store"
}
----

[[add-document-to-store]]
== Configure the Embedding Add Document to Store Operation

The *Embedding add document to store* operation adds a document into an embedding store and exports it to a file. The document is ingested into the embedding using in-memory embedding. The in-memory embedding in MuleSoft AI Chain persists its data through file exports upon any changes.

To configure the *Embedding add document to store* operation:

include::connectors::partial$t-configure-operations.adoc[]
* *Store Name* 
+
Contains the full file path for the embedding store to be saved. If the file already exists, it is overwritten. Ensure the file path is accessible.
* *Context Path*
+
Contains the full file path for the document to be ingested into the embedding store.
* *Max Segment Size* 
+
Specifies the maximum size, in tokens or characters, of each segment that the document will be split into before being ingested into the embedding store.
* *Max Overlap Size* 
+
Defines the number of tokens or characters that will overlap between consecutive segments when splitting the document.

> . In the *Context* section for the operation, select the *File Type*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Context* section for the operation, select *File Type*:
```

* *any* 
+
Automatically detects the file format and processes it accordingly. This option allows flexibility when the file type is unknown or varied.
* *text* 
+

> Text files, such as JSON, XML, TXT, and CSV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Text files, such as JSON, XML, TXT, and CSV.
```

> Text files, such as JSON, XML, TXT, and CSV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Text files, such as JSON, XML, TXT, and CSV.
```

* *url* 
+
A single URL pointing to web content to ingest.

This is the XML configuration for this operation:

[[source,xml]]
----
<ms-aichain:embedding-add-document-to-store
  doc:name="Embedding add document to store"
  doc:id="e8b73dbe-c897-4f77-85d0-aaf59476c408"
  storeName='#["/Users/john.wick/Desktop/mac-demo/stores/" ++ payload.storeName]'
  contextPath="#[payload.filePath]" 
  maxSegmentSizeInChars="#[payload.maxChunkSize]" 
  maxOverlapSizeInChars="#[payload.maxOverlapSize]" 
  fileType="#[payload.fileType]"
/>
----

=== Output Configuration

> This operation responds with a json payload containing the status of the store. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation responds with a JSON payload containing the status of the store. 
```

This is an example response of the JSON payload:

[source,json]
----
{
    "status": "updated"
}
----

In addition to the main payload, file-related metadata attributes, such as the file path, store name, and file type, are returned separately, for example:

[source,json]
----
{
  "filePath": "/Users/john.wick/Downloads/mulechain.txt",
  "storeName": "/Users/john.wick/Downloads/knowledge-store",
  "fileType": "text"
}
----

[[add-folder-to-store]]
== Configure the Embedding Add Folder to Store Operation

The *Embedding add folder to store* operation adds a complete folder with subfolder files into an embedding store and exports it to a file. The documents are ingested into the embedding using in-memory embedding. The in-memory embedding in MuleSoft AI Chain persists its data through file exports upon any changes.

To configure the *Embedding add folder to store* operation:

include::connectors::partial$t-configure-operations.adoc[]
* *Store Name*
+
Contains the full file path for the embedding store to be saved. If the file already exists, it is overwritten. Ensure the file path is accessible.
* *Context Path* 
+

> Contains the full folder path to be used for ingesting into the embedding store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contains the full folder path to use for ingesting into the embedding store.
```

* *Max Segment Size* 
+

> Specifies the maximum size, in tokens or characters, of each segment that the document will be split into before being ingested into the embedding store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies the maximum size, in tokens or characters, of each segment that the document is split into before the embedding store ingests it.
```

* *Max Overlap Size* 
+
Defines the number of tokens or characters that will overlap between consecutive segments when splitting the document.
. In the *Context* section for the operation, select the *File Type*:
* *any* 
+
Automatically detects the file format and processes it accordingly. This option allows flexibility when the file type is unknown or varied.
* *text* 
+

> Text files, such as JSON, XML, TXT, and CSV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Text files, such as JSON, XML, TXT, and CSV.
```

This is the XML configuration for this operation:

[[source,xml]]
----
<ms-aichain:embedding-add-folder-to-store 
  doc:name="Embedding add folder to store" 
  doc:id="231a2afd-8cec-4a70-96c1-3ecef19d02db" 
  config-ref="MAC_AI_Llm_configuration" 
  storeName='#[mule.home ++ "/apps/" ++ app.name ++ "/knowledge-center.store"]' 
  folderPath="#[payload.folderPath]" 
/>
----

=== Output Configuration

This operation returns a json payload containing the status of the store. In addition, folder-related metadata attributes, such as the folder path, file count, and store name, are provided separately from the main payload.

This is an example response of the JSON payload:

[source,json]
----
{
    "status": "updated"
}
----

Along with the JSON payload, the operation returns attributes, which include information about the ingested folder, for example:

[source,json]
----
{
  "folderPath": "/Users/john.wick/Downloads/files", <1>
  "filesCount": 3, <2>
  "storeName": "/Users/john.wick/Downloads/knowledge-store" <3>
}
----

<1> `folderPath` Absolute path to the folder where the files are located
<2> `filesCount` Total number of files in the specified folder

> <3> `storeName` Name or path of the knowledge store where the processed document is stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> `storeName` Name or path of the knowledge store where the processed document is stored
```

      }
  ]
}
----

Additionally, token usage and query-related metadata are returned separately as attributes, for example:

[source,json]
----
{
  "tokenUsage": { <1>
      "outputCount": 89, 
      "totalCount": 702,
      "inputCount": 613 
  },
  "additionalAttributes": { <2>
      "getLatest": "true", 
      "question": "What is MuleChain", 
      "storeName": "/Users/john.wick/Downloads/knowledge-store" 
  }
}
----

<1> tokenUsage: Provides information on the token usage for the operation:
* `outputCount` 
+
Number of tokens generated in the response
`totalCount` 
+
Total number of tokens processed for the entire operation, including input and output
* `inputCount` 
+
Number of tokens processed from the input query or document
<2> `additionalAttributes` includes metadata related to the query and store:
* `getLatest` 
+
Indicates whether the knowledge store is reloaded for each operation (true/false).
* `question` 
+
The original query or question submitted by the user.
* `storeName` 
+
The path or name of the knowledge store used in the operation.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]

> * xref:index.adoc[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:index.adoc[MuleSoft AI Chain Connector]
```

> * xref:mulesoft-ai-chain-connector-reference.adoc[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:mulesoft-ai-chain-connector-reference.adoc[MuleSoft AI Chain Connector Reference]
```
